docs/docs/developer-metrics.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Development Metrics
nav_order: 7
---

# Development Metrics
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

- TOC
{:toc}

## Purpose of this view
The goal of the Development metrics view is to provide a pane of glass view into the effieiency of 'dev' teams along with the quality of code that they produce. These metrics and the questions that they ask is based in large part around DORA.

## What is DORA
DORA, short for (DevOps Research and Assessment) was a study performed by google into determining a way rate the performance and efficiency. The below article does a great job explaining in detail.
[View Article](https://www.leanix.net/en/wiki/vsm/dora-metrics)

## How does it work
Linked below is Development Metrics dashboard in question. But in essence it collects a data around deployments, commits, and pull-requests that occur in github and displays it in a useful and easily readable way.

A link to the dora page will need to be pasted here. View this page in the code to see the format.

[View Development Metrics]({{ site.url }}{{ site.repo.name }}/metrics/dora)

Commit message:

chore(docs):  Update some documentation (#160)
* Fix a gem issue preventing docs site launch

* move diagram update to the dev guide

* rearrange dora

docs/docs/developer-metrics.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Dev (DORA) Metrics
nav_order: 7
---

# DORA Metrics
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

- TOC
{:toc}

<br/><br/>
### [ClICK HERE]({{ site.url }}{{ site.repo.name }}/metrics/dora) to view current DORA metrics for the {{ site.repo.name }} project.
{: .no_toc  }
<br/><br/>


## Purpose of this view
The goal of the DORA metrics view is to provide a pane of glass view into the effieiency of 'dev' teams along with the quality of code that they produce. These metrics and the questions that they ask is based in large part around DORA.

## What is DORA
DORA, short for (DevOps Research and Assessment) was a study performed by google into determining a way rate the performance and efficiency. The below article does a great job explaining in detail.
[View Article](https://www.leanix.net/en/wiki/vsm/dora-metrics)

## How does it work
Linked below is Development Metrics dashboard in question. But in essence it collects a data around deployments, commits, and pull-requests that occur in github and displays it in a useful and easily readable way.
