docs/docs/z-new-project-creation.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: New Project Creation
nav_order: 99
---

# New Project Creation

Standard Operating Procedure for MACPRO Project Creation Output of: <https://qmacbis.atlassian.net/browse/OY2-20437>

## Introduction
 On MACPRO, we get a lot of ideas. These stem both from the client and our development teams, both aimed at delivering on the project’s charter. These ideas often require a new project to be created. Project in this context refers to a github repository with its own distinct delivery repository and lifecycle. This document aims to be a guide for starting a new project, or a guide on how to take an idea and start delivering it.
## Audience
This SOP is suited for anyone involved with project creation. Parts will be non technical process oriented, and other parts will require technical knowledge and experience. CMS Jira requests will need to be made, so someone with appropriate access will need to be involved.
## Summary

1. Request a new GitHub repository for the project
1. Request a new set of AWS accounts (if applicable).
1. Create a new Slack channel for the project.
1. Bootstrap the new project with the base template.

## Details

### Step 1: Request a new GitHub repository for the project.
Creating a new project will always involve creating a new GitHub repository, so this step must always be completed. Before making the request for the new repo, you need to decide a few things:
- Should the repo be public or private? CMS, as a rule, likes to open source its projects, and keep some projects private by exception. So, if the project you’re creating is allowed to be public from a security stance, it should probably be public. If there’s any reason it should not be public, it should be private. The answer to this question is not always straightforward. Sometimes we have a project that doesn’t contain any secret or sensitive information, but it sheds light on the deployed, operational architecture of systems that do have such information. In that case we may decide to keep the project private. The public or private decision should be considered carefully.
- Should GitHub Actions be enabled? The answer is almost certainly yes. New MACPRO projects use GitHub Actions as it’s CI/CD appliance. In the future, Actions may be substituted for a different tool, but for now Actions is required. This question is mainly being listed since the request for Actions to be enabled on the repo is done as a distinct task.
- Who should be the initial repository admin? The repo creation process requires adding at least one MACPRO user as a repository administrator. This administrator can then add the appropriate team members to the repo.
- What should the project be called? This may already have an answer, one that you decided before referencing this document. But consider the repo name anyways. Keep in mind:
- Newly created projects will be created within the {{ site.repo.org }} GitHub organization, so it usually doesn’t make sense to include ‘cms’ in the repository name.
- All lowercase letters is a standard
- The name of the project/repo will be used a lot. It should be accurate, but
sometimes less is more.

Once you've considered the above points, [follow this how-to guide](https://qmacbis.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DE/pages/3095232517/How+to+request+a+new+Github+repository+in+CMSC+Github+Draft) to create a new Git repo.


### Step 2: Request a new set of AWS accounts, if applicable
The ‘if applicable part’ is important. 

You’ll need to decide if this new project requires its own set of AWS accounts. For background, CMS creates AWS accounts in sets of three: a ‘dev’ account, an ‘impl’ account, and a ‘prod’ account. These are created when requested by MACPRO to support new products.
However, not all new projects require its own set of accounts. While a new service or idea may be best organized in its own repository, it's sometimes unnecessary to organize it in its own AWS accounts. For example: there exists a set of ‘Bigmac’ accounts (bigmac-dev, bigmac-val, bigmac-prod). Within this set of accounts, however, several projects (repositories) are deployed. The cms-bigmac project, mmdl-connectors, seatool-connectors, and seatool-compare are each an individual project and repository, but leverage the same set of accounts. This was done because from a security standpoint, there’s no harm in them coexisting. And from a business management perspective, having less AWS Accounts when it’s acceptably secure is preferred.
In general, answer this: can my new project leverage an existing set of AWS Accounts without compromising security? Keep in mind, our developer access is organized at the account level. So for instance, anyone who gets access to Project B also gets access to Project A if B and A are deployed to the same set of AWS Accounts.
If you do have a set of AWS Accounts you can use, great! Move along to step 3. If you need to create new AWS Accounts, [follow this procedure](https://cloud.cms.gov/aws-account-creation) published by CMS.

### Step 3: Create a new Slack channel for the project.
Slack is used on MACPRO as a primary means of communication. While Slack is neither a "System of Record" nor approved for sensitive information or inappropriate use, it nonetheless is crucial to MACPRO development.
While there are many Slack channels for various purposes, we typically create one dedicated slack channel per project or repository. This channel is typically subscribed to GitHub repository events, such as releases, and is where developers can send messages regarding the product. As such, creating a new Slack channel is part of the project creation SOP

Someone with appropriate permissions can follow this procedure to create a new Slack Channel:
1. Login to the CMS Slack workspace (cmsgov.slack.com)
1. Next to ‘Channels, click the ‘+’ sign.
1. Create a new channel.
    1. Set the visibility (public/private) accordingly.  There's no rule here, but a public repo's channel should likely be public, and a private repo's channel should likely be private.
    1. Name it the same as the project repository.
1. Once created, make a note of the new channel’s URL
    1. Find the channel on the sidebar
    1. Right click -> Copy -> Copy Link. You may put this link somewhere like a notepad as you will use it later. But don’t worry, this can always be found again.
1. You may add anyone who should have access to the channel.

### Bootstrap the new repository.
New MACPRO project repositories are bootstrapped with code from our base template repository. This base template repository is a github repo itself; it’s maintained by the MACPRO Platform Team as the standard MACPRO project structure. It includes patterns for deployment, deployment of dev branches, testing, security scanning, and so forth. There’s a lot of functionality packed into it, without commenting much on the actual application architecture. This is done deliberately, so projects may use the template as a starting point, and build the new project’s services on top of it. In the future, there may be other templates that are more specific, such as a webapp template or a kafka consumer template, but for now there is only the single base template. This step involved getting the latest copy of that template and pushing it to the new project repository.

For the purposes of these instructions, we will assume your new repository (created in the steps above) is called acme, and is in the Enterprise-CMCS organization.  We will also assume the template repository you will bootstrap your project with is called macpro-base-template, in the same org.
1. Ensure all GitHub Actions are enabled for your new repository.
    - Go to the repo in GitHub in a browser.
    - Click Settings
    - Click Actions (left hand side) -> General
    - Select 'Allow all actions and reusable workflows', if not already selected.  If this option is not already set and not selectable, you will need to open a ticket with the CMS Cloud team.
1. Clone the macpro-base-template's production branch, and push it to your new repository's master branch.
  ```
  git clone -b production git@github.com:Enterprise-CMCS/macpro-base-template.git
  cd macpro-base-template
  git remote add acme git@github.com:Enterprise-CMCS/acme.git
  git push acme master
  ```
1. Ensure 'master' is set as the default branch for the new repository.
    - Go to the repo in GitHub in a web browser.
    - Click Settings
    - Click Branches (left hand side)
    - Set master as the default, if not already set.
1. Trigger the deployment of your repo's GitHub Pages (documentation) site.
    - Go to the repo in GitHub in a web browser.
    - Click Actions
    - Select 'Deploy Jekyll with GitHub Pages' (left hand side)
    - Click Run Workflow (right hand side).  When the drop down appears, leave the branch set to master, and click Run workflow.
    - CIRCLEBACK TO GET URL
1. Add and configure the repository in Code Climate.
    - Go to [https://codeclimate.com/](https://codeclimate.com/)
    - Click Login -> Quality (top right).
    - On the 'Pick an Organization' page, select the organization to which your new repository belongs.  However, if your repository is public, select Open Source.
    - Click Add a Repository
    - Find your repo and click Add Repo.
    - You should be taken to the landing page for your repo in Code Climate.  Sometimes adding a repo gets your browser stuck.  If that happens, just start back at [https://codeclimate.com/](https://codeclimate.com/) and find the repository again.  This time, though, you won't need to add it.
    - Click Repo Settings
    - Ensure the default branch is set to 'master' and click save.
    - Go back to Repo Settings
    - Click GitHub
    - Enable all features, including installing the webhook, and save all.
    - Go back to Repo Settings
    - Click Badges
    - Copy the HTML version of the Maintainability tag.  Keep this in a notepad for use later in these instructions.
1. Update project specific values in your codebase; commit and push them to the master branch.
    - Open and edit acme/.envrc
        - Update the value for PROJECT.  Shorter is usually better, as it is used extensively for namespacing purposes.  It should be all lower case, only contain letters and hyphens, and be unique in the target AWS accounts; that is, there should not be two repositories deploying to the same AWS account that use the same PROJECT value.
    - Open and edit acme/README.md
        - Find all `https://enterprise-cmcs.github.io/macpro-base-template/` and replace all with the url to your GitHub Pages docs site.
        - Find all `https://cmsgov.slack.com/archives/C04D6HXJ3GA` and replace all with the url to your project Slack channel.
        - Find the block:
            ```
            <a href="https://codeclimate.com/github/Enterprise-CMCS/macpro-base-template/maintainability">
                <img src="https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/f7cce65e43346ac8e2c2/maintainability" />
            </a>
            ``` and replace with the CodeClimate badge block you copied from CodeClimate in a previous step.
        - Update the text in the Overview and Contributing sections, as appropriate.
    - Open and edit the Jekyll config file, docs/_config.yml.  Rather than list each place where a value might need replacing/updating, we recommend you walk through this file in detail.  It's a config file, so most of it's information will need updating.
    - Update the docs site overview, located at docs/docs/overview.md - subsection Overview.  we recommend reusing the overview you put in the README
    - Commit and push all changes to your new repository, and check the GitHub Actions for success.

### Conclusion
If you’ve followed this document, you should have a new GitHub project deployed to AWS and ready for further development. This document is a WIP, and assuredly has errors and omissions, and will change over time. You can help this by reaching out to the MACPRO Platform team on Slack and letting us know about issues you find.

Commit message:

chore(docs):  documentation updates - assorted (#26)
* Remove github issues references

* edit for style

* correct standup time

* change email to be consistent with tech lead

* git access updates

* added more meetings to reflect reality

* typo

* pre-commit refactor now that its installed automatically

* typos and style

* Trim junk fields from pacakge.jsons

* remove junk fields from top level package.json

* Add noet to update the package.json

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* correct diagram

* Diagram update

* Add slack aux link in top right

* jira

* Update with org access docs

* replace with permalink

* style

* replace with permalink

* stuf

* Remove issue templates

* Add Jra badge

* important work is happening here.  you wouldnt understand

* it's jason bourne

* we just lost the moon

docs/docs/z-new-project-creation.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: New Project Creation
nav_order: 99
---

# New Project Creation

Standard Operating Procedure for MACPRO Project Creation.

## Introduction
 On MACPRO, we get a lot of ideas. These stem both from the client and our development teams, both aimed at delivering on the project’s charter. These ideas often require a new project to be created. Project in this context refers to a github repository with its own distinct delivery repository and lifecycle. This document aims to be a guide for starting a new project, or a guide on how to take an idea and start delivering it.
## Audience
This SOP is suited for anyone involved with project creation. Parts will be non technical process oriented, and other parts will require technical knowledge and experience. CMS Jira requests will need to be made, so someone with appropriate access will need to be involved.
## Summary

1. Request a new GitHub repository for the project
1. Request a new set of AWS accounts (if applicable).
1. Create a new Slack channel for the project.
1. Bootstrap the new project with the base template.

## Details

### Step 1: Request a new GitHub repository for the project.
Creating a new project will always involve creating a new GitHub repository, so this step must always be completed. Before making the request for the new repo, you need to decide a few things:
- Should the repo be public or private? CMS, as a rule, likes to open source its projects, and keep some projects private by exception. So, if the project you’re creating is allowed to be public from a security stance, it should probably be public. If there’s any reason it should not be public, it should be private. The answer to this question is not always straightforward. Sometimes we have a project that doesn’t contain any secret or sensitive information, but it sheds light on the deployed, operational architecture of systems that do have such information. In that case we may decide to keep the project private. The public or private decision should be considered carefully.
- Should GitHub Actions be enabled? The answer is almost certainly yes. New MACPRO projects use GitHub Actions as it’s CI/CD appliance. In the future, Actions may be substituted for a different tool, but for now Actions is required. This question is mainly being listed since the request for Actions to be enabled on the repo is done as a distinct task.
- Who should be the initial repository admin? The repo creation process requires adding at least one MACPRO user as a repository administrator. This administrator can then add the appropriate team members to the repo.
- What should the project be called? This may already have an answer, one that you decided before referencing this document. But consider the repo name anyways. Keep in mind:
- Newly created projects will be created within the {{ site.repo.org }} GitHub organization, so it usually doesn’t make sense to include ‘cms’ in the repository name.
- All lowercase letters is a standard
- The name of the project/repo will be used a lot. It should be accurate, but
sometimes less is more.

Once you've considered the above points, [follow this how-to guide](https://qmacbis.atlassian.net/l/cp/QDuKKWGH) to create a new Git repo.


### Step 2: Request a new set of AWS accounts, if applicable
The ‘if applicable part’ is important. 

You’ll need to decide if this new project requires its own set of AWS accounts. For background, CMS creates AWS accounts in sets of three: a ‘dev’ account, an ‘impl’ account, and a ‘prod’ account. These are created when requested by MACPRO to support new products.
However, not all new projects require its own set of accounts. While a new service or idea may be best organized in its own repository, it's sometimes unnecessary to organize it in its own AWS accounts. For example: there exists a set of ‘Bigmac’ accounts (bigmac-dev, bigmac-val, bigmac-prod). Within this set of accounts, however, several projects (repositories) are deployed. The cms-bigmac project, mmdl-connectors, seatool-connectors, and seatool-compare are each an individual project and repository, but leverage the same set of accounts. This was done because from a security standpoint, there’s no harm in them coexisting. And from a business management perspective, having less AWS Accounts when it’s acceptably secure is preferred.
In general, answer this: can my new project leverage an existing set of AWS Accounts without compromising security? Keep in mind, our developer access is organized at the account level. So for instance, anyone who gets access to Project B also gets access to Project A if B and A are deployed to the same set of AWS Accounts.
If you do have a set of AWS Accounts you can use, great! Move along to step 3. If you need to create new AWS Accounts, [follow this procedure](https://cloud.cms.gov/aws-account-creation) published by CMS.

### Step 3: Create a new Slack channel for the project.
Slack is used on MACPRO as a primary means of communication. While Slack is neither a "System of Record" nor approved for sensitive information or inappropriate use, it nonetheless is crucial to MACPRO development.
While there are many Slack channels for various purposes, we typically create one dedicated slack channel per project or repository. This channel is typically subscribed to GitHub repository events, such as releases, and is where developers can send messages regarding the product. As such, creating a new Slack channel is part of the project creation SOP

Someone with appropriate permissions can follow this procedure to create a new Slack Channel:
1. Login to the CMS Slack workspace (cmsgov.slack.com)
1. Next to ‘Channels, click the ‘+’ sign.
1. Create a new channel.
    1. Set the visibility (public/private) accordingly.  There's no rule here, but a public repo's channel should likely be public, and a private repo's channel should likely be private.
    1. Name it the same as the project repository.
1. Once created, make a note of the new channel’s URL
    1. Find the channel on the sidebar
    1. Right click -> Copy -> Copy Link. You may put this link somewhere like a notepad as you will use it later. But don’t worry, this can always be found again.
1. You may add anyone who should have access to the channel.

### Bootstrap the new repository.
New MACPRO project repositories are bootstrapped with code from our base template repository. This base template repository is a github repo itself; it’s maintained by the MACPRO Platform Team as the standard MACPRO project structure. It includes patterns for deployment, deployment of dev branches, testing, security scanning, and so forth. There’s a lot of functionality packed into it, without commenting much on the actual application architecture. This is done deliberately, so projects may use the template as a starting point, and build the new project’s services on top of it. In the future, there may be other templates that are more specific, such as a webapp template or a kafka consumer template, but for now there is only the single base template. This step involved getting the latest copy of that template and pushing it to the new project repository.

For the purposes of these instructions, we will assume your new repository (created in the steps above) is called acme, and is in the Enterprise-CMCS organization.  We will also assume the template repository you will bootstrap your project with is called macpro-base-template, in the same org.
1. Ensure all GitHub Actions are enabled for your new repository.
    - Go to the repo in GitHub in a browser.
    - Click Settings
    - Click Actions (left hand side) -> General
    - Select 'Allow all actions and reusable workflows', if not already selected.  If this option is not already set and not selectable, you will need to open a ticket with the CMS Cloud team.
1. Clone the macpro-base-template's production branch, and push it to your new repository's master branch.
  ```
  git clone -b production git@github.com:Enterprise-CMCS/macpro-base-template.git
  cd macpro-base-template
  git remote add acme git@github.com:Enterprise-CMCS/acme.git
  git push acme master
  ```
1. Ensure 'master' is set as the default branch for the new repository.
    - Go to the repo in GitHub in a web browser.
    - Click Settings
    - Click Branches (left hand side)
    - Set master as the default, if not already set.
1. Trigger the deployment of your repo's GitHub Pages (documentation) site.
    - Go to the repo in GitHub in a web browser.
    - Click Actions
    - Select 'Deploy Jekyll with GitHub Pages' (left hand side)
    - Click Run Workflow (right hand side).  When the drop down appears, leave the branch set to master, and click Run workflow.
    - CIRCLEBACK TO GET URL
1. Add and configure the repository in Code Climate.
    - Go to [https://codeclimate.com/](https://codeclimate.com/)
    - Click Login -> Quality (top right).
    - On the 'Pick an Organization' page, select the organization to which your new repository belongs.  However, if your repository is public, select Open Source.
    - Click Add a Repository
    - Find your repo and click Add Repo.
    - You should be taken to the landing page for your repo in Code Climate.  Sometimes adding a repo gets your browser stuck.  If that happens, just start back at [https://codeclimate.com/](https://codeclimate.com/) and find the repository again.  This time, though, you won't need to add it.
    - Click Repo Settings
    - Ensure the default branch is set to 'master' and click save.
    - Go back to Repo Settings
    - Click GitHub
    - Enable all features, including installing the webhook, and save all.
    - Go back to Repo Settings
    - Click Badges
    - Copy the HTML version of the Maintainability tag.  Keep this in a notepad for use later in these instructions.
1. Update project specific values in your codebase; commit and push them to the master branch.
    - Open and edit acme/.envrc
        - Update the value for PROJECT.  Shorter is usually better, as it is used extensively for namespacing purposes.  It should be all lower case, only contain letters and hyphens, and be unique in the target AWS accounts; that is, there should not be two repositories deploying to the same AWS account that use the same PROJECT value.
    - Open and edit acme/README.md
        - Find all `https://enterprise-cmcs.github.io/macpro-base-template/` and replace all with the url to your GitHub Pages docs site.
        - Find all `https://cmsgov.slack.com/archives/C04D6HXJ3GA` and replace all with the url to your project Slack channel.
        - Find the block:
            ```
            <a href="https://codeclimate.com/github/Enterprise-CMCS/macpro-base-template/maintainability">
                <img src="https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/f7cce65e43346ac8e2c2/maintainability" />
            </a>
            ``` and replace with the CodeClimate badge block you copied from CodeClimate in a previous step.
        - Update the text in the Overview and Contributing sections, as appropriate.
    - Open and edit the project's top level package.json file to be accurate.  Updates should include name, description, repository.url, and homepage.
    - Open and edit the Jekyll config file, docs/_config.yml.  Rather than list each place where a value might need replacing/updating, we recommend you walk through this file in detail.  It's a config file, so most of it's information will need updating.
    - Update the docs site overview information, located at docs/docs/overview.md - subsection Overview.  we recommend reusing the overview you put in the README
    - Commit and push all changes to your new repository, and check the GitHub Actions for success.

### Conclusion
If you’ve followed this document, you should have a new GitHub project deployed to AWS and ready for further development. This document is a WIP, and assuredly has errors and omissions, and will change over time. You can help this by reaching out to the MACPRO Platform team on Slack and letting us know about issues you find.
