docs/docs/developer-guide/pre-commit.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Pre-commit
parent: Developer Guide
nav_order: 8
---

# What is Pre-Commit?
{: .no_toc }

Pre-commit is two things in the context of our project. It is a git hook that taps into the lifecycle of commits and fires before a commit is made. It is also a python package that enables the development and versioning of these git hooks much easier.

We use pre-commit for a variety of things consisting of, but not limited to running formatting checks against code and ensuring that secrets and keys are not checked into the codebase.

{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

- TOC
{:toc}

---

### Installation
If pre-commit is not installed it is important to get it installed and setup on your machine. This is a part of the workflow for developing apps in this architecture. Luckily setup is simple.

The first step is two ensure that "Homebrew" is installed.

[Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)

Once homebrew is setup and installed on your machine, run the following command to install pre-commit.

```
brew install pre-commit
```

This is pretty much it. You can test that pre-commit is installed by running this command in the repository root.

```
pre-commit
```

Commit message:

chore(docs):  documentation updates - assorted (#26)
* Remove github issues references

* edit for style

* correct standup time

* change email to be consistent with tech lead

* git access updates

* added more meetings to reflect reality

* typo

* pre-commit refactor now that its installed automatically

* typos and style

* Trim junk fields from pacakge.jsons

* remove junk fields from top level package.json

* Add noet to update the package.json

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* correct diagram

* Diagram update

* Add slack aux link in top right

* jira

* Update with org access docs

* replace with permalink

* style

* replace with permalink

* stuf

* Remove issue templates

* Add Jra badge

* important work is happening here.  you wouldnt understand

* it's jason bourne

* we just lost the moon

docs/docs/developer-guide/pre-commit.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Pre-Commit Usage
parent: Developer Guide
nav_order: 8
---

# Pre-Commit Usage
{: .no_toc }

How to use pre-commit on the project

{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

- TOC
{:toc}

---

### Context

[Pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) is a python package that enables projects to specifies a list of hooks to run before a commit is made (a pre-commit hook).  This is really useful to enforce standards or conventions, as it prevents non conformant changes from getting committed.  

On this project, we use pre-commit to automate several checks, including:
- running a code formatting check based on [prettier](https://prettier.io/)
- checking for large files typically not desired to keep in source control
- scanning for secret material, such as AWS keys

Aside from these checks being run prior to any commit being pushed, they are also run by a GitHub Actions workflow when a pull request is made.

### Installation

Good news!  If you completed onboarding and ran the [workspace setup]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link docs/onboarding/workspace-setup.md %}) script, pre-commit should already be installed on your machine.

You can test that it's installed by running `pre-commit -V` in a terminal window.  If you get a nominal return including a version number, you're all set.  If the pre-commit command is not found, please refer back to the Onboarding / Workspace Setup section of this site.
If pre-commit is not installed it is important to get it installed and setup on your machine. This is a part of the workflow for developing apps in this architecture. Luckily setup is simple.

### Configuration

Although pre-commit is installed on your workstation, you must configure pre-commit to run for a given repository before it will begin blocking bad commits.

This procedure needs to only be run once per repository, or once each time the .pre-commit-config.yaml file is changed in the repository (very infrequently).

- open a terminal
- install all hooks configured in .pre-commit-config.yaml
  ```bash
    cd {{ site.repo.name }}
    pre-commit install -a
  ```

That's it -- after running the above commands inside the project repository, pre-comit will run the project's configured checks before any commit.
